**Machine Learning**

Mikie Lyons

Machine learning is a field of computer science that uses statistical techniques to give computer systems the ability to "learn"
with data, without being explicitly programmed.
The name machine learning was coined in 1959 by Arthur Samuel. Evolved from the study of pattern recognition and computational
learning theory in artificial intelligence, machine learning explores the study and construction of algorithms that can learn
from and make predictions on data – such algorithms overcome following strictly static program instructions by making data-driven
predictions or decisions, through building a model from sample inputs. Machine learning is employed in a range of computing tasks
where designing and programming explicit algorithms with good performance is difficult or infeasible

Examples Include:
email filtering, detection of network intruders or malicious insiders working towards a data breach, optical character recognition
(OCR), learning to rank, and computer vision.

Machine learning is closely related to (and often overlaps with) computational statistics, which also focuses on prediction-making
through the use of computers. It has strong ties to mathematical optimization, which delivers methods, theory and application domains
to the field. Machine learning is sometimes conflated with data mining, where the latter subfield focuses more on exploratory data
analysis and is known as unsupervised learning.
Machine learning can also be unsupervised and be used to learn and establish baseline behavioral profiles for various entities and then
used to find meaningful anomalies.


History:

Arthur Samuel, an American pioneer in the field of computer gaming and artificial intelligence, coined the term "Machine Learning" in
1959 while at IBM. As a scientific endeavour, machine learning grew out of the quest for artificial intelligence. Already in the
early days of AI as an academic discipline, some researchers were interested in having machines learn from data. They attempted to
approach the problem with various symbolic methods, as well as what were then termed "neural networks"; these were mostly perceptrons
and other models that were later found to be reinventions of the generalized linear models of statistics. Probabilistic reasoning
was also employed, especially in automated medical diagnosis.

Machine learning, reorganized as a separate field, started to flourish in the 1990s. The field changed its goal from achieving
artificial intelligence to tackling solvable problems of a practical nature. It shifted focus away from the symbolic approaches it
had inherited from AI, and toward methods and models borrowed from statistics and probability theory. It also benefited from the
increasing availability of digitized information, and the ability to distribute it via the Internet.


Relation to Statistics:

Machine learning and statistics are closely related fields. According to Michael I. Jordan, the ideas of machine learning, from
methodological principles to theoretical tools, have had a long pre-history in statistics. He also suggested the term data
science as a placeholder to call the overall field.
Leo Breiman distinguished two statistical modelling paradigms: data model and algorithmic model, wherein "algorithmic model" means more
or less the machine learning algorithms like Random forest.
Some statisticians have adopted methods from machine learning, leading to a combined field that they call statistical learning.


Overview:
Machine learning tasks:

Machine learning tasks are typically classified into two broad categories, depending on whether there is a learning "signal" or "feedback"
available to a learning system:

> Supervised learning: The computer is presented with example inputs and their desired outputs, given by a "teacher", and the goal is to
learn a general rule that maps inputs to outputs. As special cases, the input signal can be only partially available, or restricted to
special feedback: 
>> Semi-supervised learning: the computer is given only an incomplete training signal: a training set with some (often many) of the target
outputs missing.
>> Active learning: the computer can only obtain training labels for a limited set of instances (based on a budget), and also has to
optimize its choice of objects to acquire labels for. When used interactively, these can be presented to the user for labeling.
>> Reinforcement learning: training data (in form of rewards and punishments) is given only as feedback to the program's actions in a
dynamic environment, such as driving a vehicle or playing a game against an opponent.

>  Unsupervised learning: No labels are given to the learning algorithm, leaving it on its own to find structure in its input.
Unsupervised learning can be a goal in itself (discovering hidden patterns in data) or a means towards an end (feature learning).

